Td/#1279/ica refactor (#1370)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: academy/3-ibc/6-ica.md

**Controller Chain:** the chain that registers and controls an account on a host chain. The controller chain sends IBC packets to the host chain to control the account.

<HighlightBox type="info">

The Interchain accounts application module is structured to **support the ability to exclusively enable controller or host functionality**. This can be achieved by simply omitting either the controller or host `Keeper` from the Interchain account's `NewAppModule` constructor function, and mounting only the desired submodule via the `IBCRouter`. Alternatively, [submodules can be enabled and disabled dynamically using on-chain parameters](https://ibc.cosmos.network/main/apps/interchain-accounts/parameters.html).

</HighlightBox>

**Interchain account (ICA):** an account on a host chain. An Interchain account has all the capabilities of a normal account. However, rather than signing transactions with a private key, a controller chain's authentication module will send IBC packets to the host chain which signal what transactions the Interchain account should execute.

> **Interchain account owner:** an account on the controller chain. Every Interchain account on a host chain has a respective owner account on a controller chain. This could be a module account or other analogous account, not just a regular user account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Interchain account owner:** an account on the controller chain. Every Interchain account on a host chain has a respective owner account on a controller chain. This is not a regular user account, but more similar to a module account or other analogous account.
```

Reviewer 2: @charleenfei 

> This is not a regular user account...

Does "This" refer to the account on the host chain?

Author: No it refers to an account on the controller chain. You're right @charleenfei it reads a bit clunky but the ICA owner account could still be regular user account, so what about:

"This could be a module account (in Cosmos SDK chains )or analogous accounts, it is not strictly limited to regular user accounts."

Reviewer: that sgtm :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Interchain account owner:** an account on the controller chain. Every Interchain account on a host chain has a respective owner account on a controller chain. This owner account could be a module account (in Cosmos SDK chains ) or analogous accounts, it is not strictly limited to regular user accounts.
```

It is possible to create a new channel using the same controller chain `portID` if the previously set active channel is now in a `CLOSED` state.

<HighlightBox type="info">

For example, **in ibc-go** one can create a new channel using the Interchain account programmatically by sending a new `MsgChannelOpenInit` message, like:

```go
msg := channeltypes.NewMsgChannelOpenInit(
  portID,
  string(versionBytes),
  channeltypes.ORDERED,
  []string{connectionID},
  icatypes.HostPortID,
  authtypes.NewModuleAddress(icatypes.ModuleName).String())
handler := keeper.msgRouter.Handler(msg)
res, err := handler(ctx, msg)
if err != nil {
  return err
}
```

Alternatively, any relayer operator may initiate a new channel handshake for this Interchain account once the previously set `Active Channel` is in a `CLOSED` state. This is done by initiating the channel handshake on the controller chain **using the same portID** associated with the Interchain account in question.

</HighlightBox>

> It is important to note that once a channel has been opened for a given Interchain account, new channels cannot be opened for this account until the currently `Active Channel` is set to `CLOSED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that once a channel has been opened for a given Interchain account, new channels cannot be opened for this account until the current `Active Channel` is set to `CLOSED`.
```

### Host API

> The host chain is the chain where the Interchain account is created and the transaction data (sent by the controller) is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The host chain is the chain where the Interchain account is created and the transaction (sent by the controller) is executed.
```

Therefore, the provided API on the host submodule consists of:

* `RegisterInterchainAccount`: enables the registration of Interchain accounts on the host, associated with an owner on the controller side.
* `ExecuteTx`: enables the transaction data to be executed, provided successful authentication.
* `AuthenticateTx`: checks that the signer of a particular message is the Interchain account associated with the counterparty portID of the channel that the IBC packet was sent on.

<HighlightBox type="note">

The host API methods run automatically as part of the flow and need not be exposed to an end-user or module, as is the case on the controller side with `RegisterInterchainAccount` and `SendTx`.

</HighlightBox>

#### Register an Interchain account

> The `RegisterInterchainAccount` flow was discussed on the controller side already, where it triggered a handshake. On the host side is a complementary part of the flow, but here it's triggered in the `OnChanOpenTry` step of the handshake, which will create the Interchain account.

Author: Does anyone see if I forgot some formatting here somewhere? The syntax highlighting seems messed up from here on forward but I cannot identify why, maybe a fresh pair of eyes will see...

<br/><br/>
A `MsgServer` was added to the ICA controller submodule to facilitate this.
<br/><br/>
More information regarding the details and context for the redesign can be found in [ADR-009](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-009-v6-ics27-msgserver.md) or in a [dedicated blog post](https://medium.com/the-interchain-foundation/ibc-go-v6-changes-to-interchain-accounts-and-how-it-impacts-your-chain-806c185300d7) on the topic.
<br/><br/>
For now, the legacy API remains available for those developers who have already built custom IBC authentication modules, but it will be deprecated in the future.

</HighlightBox>

<HighlightBox type="info">

**SDK Security Model**
<br/><br/>
SDK modules on a chain are assumed to be trustworthy. For example, there are no checks to prevent an untrustworthy module from accessing the bank keeper.
<br/><br/>

> The implementation of [ICS-27](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/master/spec/app/ics-027-interchain-accounts/README.md) on [ibc-go](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/tree/main/modules/apps/27-interchain-accounts) uses this assumption in its security considerations. It assumes that:

Reviewer: not exactly sure yet how to refactor but i find this section a bit confusing as to what the security implications actually are from ics27 then just reading this description

Reviewer 2: @srdtrk Your opinion is probably sought here.

Reviewer: ill check in on this!

Reviewer 2: @srdtrk Can you prepare a suggestion?

Reviewer 3: I don't think there is need for changes @xavierlepretre. The issue is consistent with the document

* The authentication module will not try to open channels on owner addresses it does not control.
* Other IBC application modules will not bind to ports within the [ICS-27](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/master/spec/app/ics-027-interchain-accounts/README.md) namespace.

</HighlightBox>

More information on which type of authentication module to use for which development use case can be found [here](https://ibc.cosmos.network/main/apps/interchain-accounts/development.html).

> There you will find references to development use cases requiring access to the packet callbacks, which is discussed in the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There you will find references to development use cases requiring access to the packet callbacks, which are discussed in the next section.
```

    // this portId and connectionId, which also implies an
    // interchain account has been registered using
    // this portId and connectionId
    activeChannelID, found = GetActiveChannelID(portId, connectionId)
    abortTransactionUnless(found)

    // validate timeoutTimestamp
    abortTransactionUnless(timeoutTimestamp <= currentTimestamp())

    // validate icaPacketData
    abortTransactionUnless(icaPacketData.type == EXECUTE_TX)
    abortTransactionUnless(icaPacketData.data != nil)

    // send icaPacketData to the host chain on the active channel
    sequence = handler.sendPacket(
      capability,
      portId, // source port ID
      activeChannelID, // source channel ID
      0,
      timeoutTimestamp,
      icaPacketData
    )

    return sequence
}
```

<HighlightBox type="note">

Note that the packet data you'll be sending over IBC, `icaPacketData` should be of type `EXECUTE_TX` and have a non nil data field.
<br/>
Additionally, you'll note that `SendTx` calls core IBCs `sendPacket` API to transport the packet over the ICS-27 channel.

</HighlightBox>

![ica-sendtx](/academy/3-ibc/images/icasendtx.png)

#### ICS-27 channels

> After an interchain account has been registered on the host side, the main functionality is provided by `SendTx`. When designing ICA for the ibc-go implementation, a decision was made to use [`ORDERED` channels](./3-channels.md), to ensure that messages are executed in the desired order on the host side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After an interchain account has been registered on the host side, the main functionality is provided by `SendTx`. When designing ICA for the ibc-go implementation, a decision was made to use [`ORDERED` channels](./3-channels.md), to ensure that messages are executed in the desired order on the host side, akin to the use of the transaction `sequence` for regular accounts.
```

</HighlightBox>

More information on what type of authentication module to use for what development use case can be found [here](https://ibc.cosmos.network/main/apps/interchain-accounts/development.html).

There you will find references to development use cases requiring access to the packet callbacks, which is discussed in the next section.

## Application callbacks

Custom authentication is one potential use case for the use of interchain accounts, however it quickly became clear that another important use case would become apparent. Namely, interchain accounts packets being sent as part of a composable programmatic flow.

As an example, a remote-controlled atomic swap:

1. Send an ICS-20 packet to a remote chain.
2. If it is successful, then send an ICA-packet to swap tokens on a liquidity pool (LP) on the host chain.
3. Return the funds back to the sender (on the controller chain).

<HighlightBox type="best-practice">

The request from the community to enable a standard for this type of flow, resulted in [ADR-008](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc-go/blob/main/docs/architecture/adr-008-app-caller-cbs/adr-008-app-caller-cbs.md) which extends the ability for general use cases.

> Follow up on the developments around ADR-008 and the so-called _callback interface for IBC actors_, i.e. secondary applications (like smart contracts for example) that want to call into IBC apps as part of their state machine logic.

Reviewer 2: Probably not a note to self. With the line above it, it reads like "to be up to date on the best practice, follow up on ADR-008 as it is currently a moving target". I would leave it as is.

Note to self: revisit in 6 months ;)

> Follow up on the developments around ADR-008 and the so-called _callback interface for IBC actors_, i.e. secondary applications (like smart contracts for example) that want to call into IBC apps as part of their state machine logic.

Author: @xavierlepretre is right, was an invitation to the reader to keep up with ADR-008 developments which are indeed a moving target right now, you might be able to phrase this a little better. Feel free to change @AndrewB9lab

**Interchain account (ICA):** an account on a host chain. An Interchain account has all the capabilities of a normal account. However, rather than signing transactions with a private key, a controller chain's authentication module will send IBC packets to the host chain which contain the transactions that the Interchain account should execute.

> **Interchain account owner:** an account on the controller chain. Every Interchain account on a host chain has a respective owner account on a controller chain. This owner account could be a module account (in Cosmos SDK chains ) or analogous accounts, it is not strictly limited to regular user accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Interchain account owner:** an account on the controller chain. Every Interchain account on a host chain has a respective owner account on a controller chain. This owner account could be a module account (in Cosmos SDK chains) or analogous accounts, it is not strictly limited to regular user accounts.
```
